Animals have been my fascination since I was a child. From the age of seven I owned many books on birds and wildlife. I got my first pair of binoculars when I was nine and went birdwatching regularly after that. I have grown up keeping this intense interest, which turned into an avid hobby in wildlife photography. I still manage to astound my friends with my vast knowledge of birds. When I was on holiday one year, I stumbled across an injured seagull that a child was taunting. This infuriated me. I managed to clear them off and inspected the injured bird. Upon examination, it had a broken wing. This was when I realised that I wanted to spend the rest of my life helping animals and preventing this type of action again. I volunteered at an animal sanctuary one day a week for a year. I spent my time there cleaning out pens, feeding and checking on animals ranging from cats to kestrels. My time here taught me how to work as a team effectively in stressful environments, such as bird flu, where we had to act quickly and efficiently to make sure no birds were infected. I learned how animals act when they are injured or need medical attention, and the procedures to help or prevent this. I also led tasks to ensure that attention was met via drugs or some other means. I had to endure unpleasant things, which taught me how to prioritise and identify what needed to be done for the greater good, facing tough decisions when animals were ill and facing euthanasia. Additionally, I spent one week in a vet practice watching a variety of surgical procedures. These ranged from cat and dog spays and castrations along with dentals and x-rays spanning all the way to a leg amputation on a greyhound. This surgery showed me how necessary communication and teamwork was to work efficiently in the theatre. I also saw the effects of myxomatosis on rabbits, and how this was dealt with quickly and effectively. I observed surgery prep and learnt how anaesthetic dosage depends on the size and species of the animal. I watched how the nurses helped prep in the op theatre: tubing the animal for O2 and Isoflurane, inserting an IV for injections, prepping the necessary areas by shaving, scrubbing, and using spirit. A levels grant me great enthusiasm in delving into the links between biology and chemistry, and how these relate to drugs and treatments used on animals. "Medical Ethics: A very short introduction" gave me some insight on how ethics such as euthanasia can be hard for people, as it poses the question of "Would this be what they wanted?" and can be viewed as extremely immoral and as murder or as a gentler release from pain. This is important in the world of animals as they can't tell us what is best for them. We have to make the call. I also read "What is Life?" by Paul Nurse and attended a lecture from him, where he went into detail about being a geneticist in the world of cancer research, leading him to the discovery of the Cdc2 gene. This sparked my curiosity around the cell cycle and led me to immersion in information outside of my syllabus. "The Microbes Fight Back" gave me an insight on how points in medical history led to where we are now. I learnt about how crucial antibiotic resistance is, and how the use of antibiotics in animals can lead to problems in stocks and farms. I have played guitar since age four and violin since age seven, achieving grade eight in both. These have led to me performing at the Royal Albert Hall twice and doing a solo recital at Queens' College, Cambridge. I also toured Spain and performed in the International Guitar Festival with the National Youth Guitar Ensemble. When I was younger, I took part in drama, dance and singing for five years. These hobbies helped me gain the skills to work as a team, and alone whilst under pressure. I have always loved to find out what makes things tick. The reason I chose this subject area is because I think it can quench my curiosity for questions I have been building up over my life.